Question 1: When many Development Teams are working on a single product, what best describes the definition of "Done?"
	A) Each Development Team uses its own but must make their definition clear to all other teams so the differences are known.
	B) Each Development Team defines and uses its own. The differences are discussed and reconciled during a hardening Sprint.
	C*) All Development Teams must have a definition of "Done" that makes their combined work potentially releasable.
	D) It depends.
 # Scrum requires an Increment to be releasable. This is an Increment of product. Many teams working on a single product are expected to deliver such an Increment.


Question 2: The time-box for a Daily Scrum is?
	A*) 15 minutes.
	B) 15 minutes for a 4 week sprint. For shorter Sprints it is usually shorter.
	C) Two minutes per person.
	D) 4 hours.
	E) The same time of day every day.
 # The length of a daily Scrum is time-boxed at 15 minutes, it does not change with the length of a Sprint.


Question 3: True or False: The purpose of a Sprint is to produce a done increment of working product.
	A*) True
	B) False
 # The heart of Scrum is a Sprint, a time-box of one month or less during which a "Done", usable, and potentiallyreleasable product Increment is created.


Question 4: During a Sprint, a Development Team determines that it will not be able to finish the complete forecast. Who should be present to review and adjust the Sprint work selected?
	A*) The Product Owner and the Development Team.
	B) The Development Team.
	C) The Product Owner and all stakeholders.
	D) The Scrum Master, the project manager and the Development Team.
 # During the Sprint, scope may be clarified and re-negotiated between the Product Owner and Development Team as more is learned.


Question 5: Which statement best describes a Product Owner's responsibility?
	A*) Optimizing the value of the work the Development Team does.
	B) Keep stakeholders from distracting the Development Team.
	C) Directing the Development Team.
	D) Managing the project and ensuring that the work meets the commitments to the stakeholders.
 # The Product Owner is responsible for maximizing the value of the product and the work of the DevelopmentTeam.


Question 6: Why is the Daily Scrum held at the same time and same place?
	A) Rooms are hard to book and this lets it be booked in advance.
	B) The place can be named.
	C) The Product Owner demands it.
	D*) The consistency reduces complexity.
 # The Daily Scrum is held at the same time and place each day to reduce complexity.


Question 7: When does the next Sprint begin?
	A) When the Product Owner is ready.
	B) Next Monday.
	C*) Immediately after the conclusion of the previous Sprint.
	D) Immediately following the next Sprint Planning.
 # A new Sprint starts immediately after the conclusion of the previous Sprint.


Question 8: Upon what type of process control is Scrum based?
	A) Complex
	B) Defined
	C) Hybrid
	D*) Empirical
 # Scrum is founded on empirical process control theory, or empiricism. Empiricism asserts that knowledge comes from experience and making decisions based on what is known.


Question 9: An organization has decided to adopt Scrum, but management wants to change the terminology to fit with terminology already used. What will likely happen if this is done?
	A) Without a new vocabulary as a reminder of the change, very little change may actually happen.
	B) The organization may not understand what has changed with Scrum and the benefits of Scrum may be lost.
	C) Management may feel less anxious.
	D*) All of the above.


Question 10: When does a Development Team member become the sole owner of a Sprint Backlog item?(choose the best answer)
	A) Whenever a team member can accommodate more work.
	B) At the Sprint planning meeting.
	C*) Never. All Sprint Backlog Items are "owned" by the entire Development Team, even though each one may be implemented by an individual development team member.
	D) During the Daily Scrum.
 # Sprint Backlog and all of its items are collectively owned by the Development Team. No individual team member can claim ownership over an item as this would block communication and collaboration.


Question 11: The three pillars of empirical process control are:
	A) Planning, Demonstration, Retrospective
	B) Transparency, Eliminating Waste, Kaizen
	C) Respect For People, Kaizen, Eliminating Waste
	D*) Inspection, Transparency, Adaptation
	E) Planning, Inspection, Adaptation
 # .
 # Scrum is founded on empirical process control theory, or empiricism. Empiricism asserts that knowledge comes from experience and making decisions based on what is known.
 # Three pillars uphold every implementation of empirical process control: transparency, inspection, and adaptation.


Question 12: Which statement best describes the Sprint Review?
	A*) It is when the Scrum Team and stakeholders inspect the outcome of a Sprint and figure out what to do next.
	B) It is a demo at the end of the Sprint for everyone in the organization to check on the work done.
	C) It is a mechanism to control the Development Team's activities during a Sprint.
 # Every event in Scrum, besides the Sprint which is a container for the other events, is an opportunity to InspectAND Adapt.


Question 13: How much work must a Development Team do to a Product Backlog item it selects for a Sprint?
	A*) As much as it has told the Product Owner will be done for every Product Backlog item it
	B) Analysis, design, programming, testing and documentation.
	C) As much as it can fit into the Sprint.
	D) All development work and at least some testing.
 # selects in conformance with the definition of "Done".
 # The purpose of each Sprint is to deliver Increments of potentially releasable functionality that adhere to theScrum Team's current definition of "Done".


Question 14: Who is required to attend the Daily Scrum?
	A) The Scrum team.
	B) The Development Team and Product Owner.
	C) The Development Team and Scrum Master.
	D*) The Development Team.
	E) The Scrum Master and Product Owner.
 # Only the people doing the work described on the Sprint Backlog need to inspect and adapt at the Daily Scrum. If the Scrum Master or Product Owner is also on the Development Team, they will need to be at the Daily Scrum.Otherwise, the Scrum Master simply has to make sure the Development Team knows how to conduct a DailyScrum and does so.


Question 15: The maximum length of the Sprint Review (its time-box) is:
	A) 2 hours.
	B) 1 day.
	C*) 4 hours for a monthly Sprint. For shorter Sprints it is usually shorter.
	D) 4 hours and longer as needed.
	E) As long as needed.
 # Sprint Review is a four-hour time-boxed meeting for one-month Sprints. For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.


Question 16: Who has the final say on the order of the Product Backlog? (choose the best answer)
	A*) The Product Owner
	B) The Stakeholders
	C) The Scrum Master
	D) The CEO
	E) The Development Team
 # The Product Owner is the sole person responsible for managing the Product Backlog.


Question 17: Which of the following services are appropriate for a Scrum Master in regard to the Daily Scrum?
	A) All answers apply.
	B) Facilitate in a way that ensures each team member has a chance to speak.
	C) Lead the discussions of the Development Team.
	D*) Teach the Development Team to keep the Daily Scrum within the 15 minute time-box.
	E) Ensure that all 3 questions have been answered.
 # The Scrum Master ensures that the Development Team has the meeting, but the Development Team is
 # responsible for conducting the Daily Scrum. The Scrum Master teaches the Development Team to keep the Daily Scrum within the 15-minute time-box. The Scrum Master enforces the rule that only Development Team members participate in the Daily Scrum.


Question 18: Who is on the Scrum Team?
	A*) The Scrum Master
	B*) The Product Owner
	C*) The Development Team
	D) Project Manager
	E) None of the above
 # The Scrum Team consists of the Scrum Master (manages the process), the Product Owner (decides what to do)and the Development Team (does the work).


Question 19: Which of the below are roles on a Scrum Team?
	A) Customers
	B*) Product Owner
	C*) Development Team
	D) Users
	E*) Scrum Master
 # The Scrum Team consists of a Product Owner, the Development Team, and a Scrum Master.


Question 20: Development Team membership should change:
	A*) As needed, while taking into account a short term reduction in productivity.
	B) Every Sprint to promote shared learning.
	C) Never, because it reduces productivity.
	D) As needed, with no special allowance for changes in productivity.
 # Teams typically go through some steps before achieving a state of increased performance. Changing
 # membership typically reduces cohesion, affecting performance and productivity in the short term.


Question 21: Which three behaviors demonstrate that a team is NOT self-organizing and are NOT following the Scrum Guide?
	A) Development Team members collaboratively selecting their own work during the Sprint.
	B*) The Development Team invites external people to the Sprint Planning to ask them how to turn a Product Backlog item into an Increment via a complete and detailed Sprint Backlog.
	C) The Development Team creates their own sprint backlog, reflecting all work that is part of the definition of "Done".
	D*) The Development Team members are working within the boundaries of their functional description and nicely handing off work from analyst to developer to tester to integration.
	E) The Development Team has all the skills needed to create a releasable Increment.
	F*) Stakeholders attend the Daily Scrum to check progress and work with the Scrum Master to optimize the functional scope for the Sprint.
 # The Daily Scrum is for the Development Team and attended by the Development Team. It should not be used by external stakeholders to check progress.
 # During Sprint Planning the Scrum Team should be crafting the Sprint Goal based on the set of Product Backlog items selected for the sprint. The Development Team identifies the necessary work to meet the Sprint Goal.
 # Scrum Development Team members don’t have titles, and no sub-teams; such as, testing, architecture, or operations are recognized. Accountability belongs with the Development Team as a whole, regardless of whether team members have specialized skills.


Question 22: When might a Sprint be abnormally cancelled?
	A*) When the Sprint Goal becomes obsolete.
	B) When the Development Team feels that the work is too hard.
	C) When the sales department has an important new opportunity.
	D) When it becomes clear that not everything will be finished by the end of the Sprint.
 # A Sprint can be cancelled before the Sprint time-box is over. A Sprint would be cancelled if the Sprint Goal becomes obsolete. This might occur if the company changes direction or if market or technology conditions change.


Question 23: Which statement best describes Scrum?
	A) A complete methodology that defines how to develop software.
	B) A defined and predictive process that conforms to the principles of Scientific Management.
	C) A cookbook that defines best practices for software development.
	D*) A framework within which complex products in complex environments are developed.
 # Scrum is not a process or a technique for building products; rather, it is a framework within which you can employ various processes and techniques.


Question 24: True or False: It is mandatory that the product increment be released to production at the end of each Sprint.
	A) True
	B*) False
 # The product increment should be usable and releasable at the end of every Sprint, but it does not have to be released.


Question 25: Which two things does the Development Team do during the first Sprint? (choose the best two answers)
	A*) Deliver an increment of potentially releasable software.
	B) Develop a plan for the rest of the release.
	C) Determine the complete architecture and infrastructure for the product.
	D) Create the complete Product Backlog to be developed in subsequent Sprints.
	E*) Develop and deliver at least one piece of functionality.
 # The heart of Scrum is a Sprint, a time-box of one month or less during which a "Done", useable, and potentially releasable product Increment is created. This applies to every Sprint.


Question 26: The length of a Sprint should be:
	A) Short enough to keep the business risk acceptable to the Product Owner.
	B) Short enough to be able to synchronize the development work with other business events.
	C) No more than one month.
	D*) All of these answers are correct.
 # All of these choices are appropriate considerations in determining the length of a Sprint.


Question 27: The Development Team should have all the skills needed to:
	A*) Turn the Product Backlog items it selects into an increment of potentially releasable product functionality.
	B) Complete the project as estimated when the date and cost are committed to the Product Owner.
	C) Do all of the development work, except for specialized testing that requires additional tools and environments.
 # The Development Team consists of professionals who do the work of delivering a potentially releasable
 # Increment of "Done" product at the end of each Sprint. Development Teams are cross-functional, with all of the skills as a team necessary to create a product Increment.


Question 28: Who creates the definition of "Done"?
	A) The Scrum Master as he/she is responsible for the Development Team's productivity
	B) The Product Owner as he/she is responsible for the product's success
	C) The Scrum Team, in a collaborative effort where the result is the common denominator of all members' definitions
	D*) The development organization (or Development Team if none is available from the development organization)
 # If the definition of "done" is part of the conventions, standards or guidelines of the development organization, allScrum Teams must follow it as a minimum. The Development Team of the Scrum Team can complement it with elements specific for the product or context.
 # If "done" for an increment is not a convention of the development organization, the Development Team of theScrum Team must define a definition of "done" appropriate for the product.


Question 29: The time-box for the Sprint Planning meeting is?
	A) Whenever it is done.
	B) Monthly.
	C) 4 hours.
	D*) 8 hours for a monthly Sprint. For shorter Sprints it is usually shorter.
 # Sprint Planning is time-boxed to a maximum of eight hours for a one-month Sprint. For shorter Sprints, the events usually shorter.


Question 30: The Product Backlog is ordered by:
	A) Least valuable items at the top to most valuable at the bottom.
	B) Size, where small items are at the top and large items are at the bottom.
	C) Risk, where safer items are at the top, and riskier items are at the bottom.
	D*) Whatever is deemed most appropriate by the Product Owner.
	E) Items are randomly arranged.
 # The Product Owner decides what makes the most sense to optimize the value of the work being done by the Development Team.


Question 31: True or False: When multiple teams work together on the same product, each team should maintain a separate Product Backlog.
	A) True
	B*) False
 # Products have one Product Backlog, regardless of how many teams are used. Any other setup makes it difficult for the Development Team to determine what it should work on.


Question 32: Who should know the most about the progress toward a business objective or a release, and be able to explain the alternatives most clearly?
	A) The Scrum Master
	B) The Project Manager
	C*) The Product Owner
	D) The Development Team
 # The Product Owner is the sole person responsible for managing the Product Backlog, which includes that the Product Backlog is visible, transparent, and clear to all, and shows what the Scr8um Team will work on next.


Question 33: (Which one the following answers is FALSE?)
	A) The Development Team may work with the Product Owner to remove or add work if it finds it has more or less capacity than it expected.
	B*) The Sprint Backlog is fully formulated in the Sprint Planning meeting and does not change during the Sprint.
	C) As a decomposition of the selected Product Backlog Items, the Sprint Backlog changes and may grow as the work emerges.
	D) The Product Owner can help clarify or optimize the Sprint when asked by the Development Team.
 # The Sprint Backlog makes visible all of the work that the Development Team identifies as necessary to meet the Sprint Goal. The Development Team modifies the Sprint Backlog throughout the Sprint, and the Sprint Backlog emerges during the Sprint.


Question 34: What is the main reason for the Scrum Master to be at the Daily Scrum?
	A) To write down any changes to the Sprint Backlog, including adding new items, and tracking progress on the burn-down.
	B) To make sure every team member answers the three questions.
	C) To gather status and progress information to report to management.
	D*) He or she does not have to be there; he or she only has to ensure the Development Team has a Daily Scrum.
 # The Scrum Master enforces the rule that only Development Team members participate in the Daily Scrum.


Question 35: What is the role of Management in Scrum?
	A) Identify and remove people that aren't working hard enough.
	B*) Support the Product Owner with insights and information into high value product and system capabilities. Support the Scrum Master to cause organizational change that fosters  empiricism, self-organization, bottom-up intelligence, and intelligent release of software.
	C) Monitor the Development Team's productivity.
	D) Continually monitor staffing levels of the Development Team.
 # Management has no active role in the actual product development through Scrum. However, management external to the Scrum team is incredibly important in setting the vision and strategy to guide the overall direction of the organization.


Question 36: When is a Sprint over?
	A) When all the tasks are completed.
	B) When all Product Backlog items meet their definition of done.
	C) When the Product Owner says it is done.
	D*) When the time-box expires.
 # The duration of a Sprint is fixed and cannot be shortened or lengthened.


Question 37: What is the recommended size for a Development Team (within the Scrum Team)?
	A*) 3 to 9
	B) 9
	C) 7 plus or minus 2
	D) Minimal 7
 # Optimal Development Team size is small enough to remain nimble and large enough to complete significant work. Fewer than three Development Team members decreases interaction and results in smaller productivity gains. More than nine members simply requires too much coordination.


Question 38: What does it mean to say that an event has a time-box?
	A) The event must take at least a minimum amount of time.
	B*) The event can take no more than a maximum amount of time.
	C) The event must happen at a set time.
	D) The event must happen by a given time.
 # Time-boxed events are events that have a maximum duration.


Question 39: True or False:  The Scrum Team should choose at least one high priority process improvement, identified during the Sprint Retrospective, and place it in the Product Backlog.
	A) True
	B*) False
 # To ensure continuous improvement, the Sprint Backlog rather than the Product Backlog includes at least one high priority process improvement identified in the previous Sprint Retrospective meeting.


Question 40: Who is responsible for managing the progress of work during a Sprint?
	A) The Product Owner
	B*) The Development Team
	C) The most junior member of the Team
	D) The Scrum Master


Question 41: What are the two primary ways a Scrum Master keeps a Development Team working at its highest level of productivity?
	A) By keeping high value features high in the Product Backlog
	B*) By removing impediments that hinder the Development Team
	C) By starting and ending the meetings at the proper time
	D*) By facilitating Development Team decisions


Question 42: Which events are time-boxed according to the Scrum Guide?
	A*) The Sprint.
	B*) Daily Scrum.
	C*) Sprint Review.
	D) Sprint Testing.
	E) Release Testing.
	F) Release Retrospective.
	G) Design Sprint.
 # The Scrum Guide states that all Scrum Events are time-boxed. The Sprint - 1 month or less, Sprint Planning -maximum 8 hours for a one-month sprint, Daily Scrum - 15-minutes, Sprint Review - maximum 4 hours for a one-month sprint, and the Sprint Retrospective - maximum 3 hours for a one-month sprint.


Question 43: The CEO asks the Development Team to add a "very important" item to a Sprint that is in progress. What should the Development Team do?
	A) Add the item to the current Sprint and drop an item of equal size.
	B) Add the item to the current Sprint without any adjustments.
	C) Add the item to the next Sprint.
	D*) Inform the Product Owner so he/she can work with the CEO.
 # The items selected for a Sprint have been selected as most valuable with the Product Owner. The items serve the Sprint's goal. No changes should be made that endanger the Sprint Goal. No one external to the Scrum Team can force changes on the Development Team (Sprint Backlog) and the Product Owner (Product Backlog).


Question 44: True or False: Scrum does not have a role called "project manager."
	A*) True
	B) False
 # A Scrum Team has a Scrum Master, a Product Owner and a Development Team. As a whole they have all controls needed.


Question 45: Select three incorrect, untrue, or misleading statements about Scrum?
	A) Scrum is a framework for developing and sustaining complex products.
	B) Scrum is based on empirical process and control theory.
	C*) Scrum is a framework that eliminates complexity.
	D) Each component of Scrum serves a specific purpose and is essential to Scrum’s success and your usage of Scrum to develop complex products.
	E*) Scrum is like traditional processes but with self-organization to replace Project Managers.
	F*) Scrum is a methodology where you can pick and choose which parts of Scrum you think will work for your environment.


Question 46: Which does a self-organizing Development Team choose?
	A) Sprint length.
	B*) How to best accomplish its work
	C) When to release, based on its progress
	D) Stakeholders for the Sprint Review
	E) Product Backlog ordering


Question 47: In order to achieve the benefits of Scrum, it is important to enact the value of commitment. What two actions demonstrate the commitment of Scrum team members?
	A*) Do your best
	B) Work late
	C) Send out a daily status report
	D) Always deliver the items in the Sprint forecast
	E*) Help the other Scrum team members


Question 48: A scrum team has been working on a product for 9 Sprints. A new Product Owner comes in, understanding he is accountable for the Product Backlog. However, he is unsure about his responsibilities. Which two activities are part of the Product Owner role according to Scrum?
	A) Providing the Development Team with detailed specifications
	B) Describing features as use cases
	C*) Interacting with stakeholders
	D) Creating detailed functional test cases
	E*) Ensuring that the most valuable functionality is produced first, at all times.


Question 49: Which technique is the best way the Scrum Master can ensure that the Development Team communicates effectively with the Product Owner.
	A) Teach the Product Owner about the technologies employed during the Sprints
	B*) Monitor communications between them and facilitate direct collaboration
	C) Teach the Development Team to talk in terms of business needs and objectives
	D) Act as a go-between for them


Question 50: When a Development Team is having trouble delivering a working increment because they don’t understand a functional requirement, what should they do?
	A) Partially complete the functionality, and discuss the remaining work at the Sprint review
	B) Defer the work to a more appropriate Sprint
	C*) Collaborate with the Product Owner to determine what is possible and acceptable
	D) Add a specialist to the Development Team


Question 51: Several Sprints into a project, the Product Owner tells the Scrum Master that a Key Stakeholder just started using the product. The Stakeholder is unhappy with the slow performance. What are two good options for the Scrum Master?
	A*) Encourage the Product Owner to put performance on the Product Backlog and express the Stakeholders concern to the Development Team.
	B) Explain to the Product Owner that it’s up to the Development Team to decide on acceptable performance standards.
	C) Bring the concern to the testers to improve how the system is tested.
	D*) Coach the Product Owner on how to talk with the Development Team about this concern.
	E) Wait to bring this up until the Sprint retrospective


Question 52: The Product Owner and Scrum Master should not be part of the Development Team.
	A) True
	B*) False
 # Anmerkung: Nicht im Einklang mit Scrum Guide. Scrum ist neutral und offen.


Question 53: What are two ways that architecture and infrastructure are handled in scrum?
	A) They are built by a separate team through the creation of an architectural runway
	B*) They are implemented along with functional development of the product
	C) They are discussed, determined and documented before the actual feature development Sprints
	D*) They are added to the Product Backlog and addressed in early Sprints while always requiring at least some business functionality, no matter how small


Question 54: A Scrum team is only allowed to meet with stakeholders during Sprint review.
	A) True
	B*) False


Question 55: During a Sprint, when is new work or further decomposition of work added to the Sprint Backlog?
	A*) As soon as possible after they are identified
	B) When the Product Owner identifies new work
	C) During the daily Scrum after the Development Team approves them
	D) When the Scrum Master has time to enter team


Question 56: During a Sprint retrospective, for what is the Product Owner responsible?
	A) Capturing requirements for the Product Backlog
	B*) Participating as a scrum team member
	C) Summarizing and reporting the discussions to the stakeholders that he/she represents in the scrum team
	D) The Product Owner should not take part in Sprint retrospectives


Question 57: You are the Scrum Master of a new to be developed product. Development is going to require 45 people. What is a good first question for you to suggest the group thinks about when forming into teams?
	A) What is the right mixture of senior and junior people on each team?
	B*) How will we make sure all teams have the right amount of expertise?
	C) Who are the subject matter experts on each team?
	D) Who are going to be the team leads?


Question 58: What is a Development Team responsible for?
	A) Selecting the Product Owner
	B*) Resolving internal team conflicts
	C) Reporting productivity
	D*) Organizing the work required to meet the Sprint goal


Question 59: Five new Scrum teams have been created to build one product. A few of the developers on one of the dev. teams ask the Scrum Master how to coordinate their work with the other teams. What should the Scrum Master do?
	A) Visit the five teams each day to inspect that their Sprint Backlogs are aligned
	B*) Teach them that it is their responsibility to work with the other teams to create an integrated [potentially releasable] increment
	C) Teach the Product Owner to work with the lead developers on ordering Product Backlog in a way to avoid too much technical and development overlap during a spring
	D) Collect the Sprint tasks from the teams at the end of their Sprint Planning and merge that into a consolidated plan for the entire Sprint Planning


Question 60: Which of the following is required by Scrum?
	A*) Sprint retrospective
	B) Members must stand up at the daily Scrum
	C) Sprint burndown chart
	D) Release planning
	E) All of the above
 # Choose all that apply


Question 61: Which of the following best describes an increment of working software?
	A) An automated test suite to verify functionality delivered in previous iterations
	B) 0
	C) UML diagrams that describes how to deliver functionality in future iterations
	D*) Additional features in a usable state that complement those delivered in previous iterations
	E) A decomposition of all Product Backlog items into tasks or future Sprint Backlog lists


Question 62: In accordance with Scrum theory, how should a group of 100 people be divided into multiple Development Teams?
	A*) Understanding the product, vision and the rules of the Scrum framework, the group divides itself into teams
	B) It doesn’t really matter because you can rotate the teams every Sprint to spread knowledge
	C) Check with the allocation dept. to see who has worked together before and make these the first teams
	D) Create a matrix of skills, seniority, and level of experience to assign people to teams


Question 63: The Development Teams should have all the skills needed to:
	A) Complete the project within the date and cost as calculated by the Product Owner
	B*) Turn Product Backlog items into an increment of potentially releasable product functionality
	C) Do all of the development work, except for specialized testing that requires additional tools and environments


Question 64: Who determines when it is appropriate to update the Sprint Backlog during a Sprint?
	A) The Scrum team
	B) The project manager
	C) The Product Owner
	D*) The Development Team


Question 65: Who is responsible for clearly expressing Product Backlog items?
	A) The Scrum Master
	B) The Scrum Master, or the Scrum may master have the Development Team do it
	C*) The Product Owner
	D) The business analyst who represents the Product Owner in the Development Team


Question 66: Every Development Team should have:
	A) At least 1 representative from each major software engineering discipline (like QA, DEV, UX)
	B*) The competencies and skills needed to deliver a done increment in a Sprint
	C) One lead developer and no more than 8 other members


Question 67: Which of the following are appropriate topics for discussion during a Sprint retrospective?
	A*) How the team collaborates
	B) The order of items in the Product Backlog
	C*) Identifying high priority process improvements for the next Sprint
	D) Documenting acceptance criteria for items in the next Sprint
 # Choose best 2 answers


Question 68: Which does a self organizing Development Team choose?
	A) When to release, based on its progress
	B*) How to best accomplish its work
	C) Sprint length
	D) Product Backlog ordering
	E) Stakeholders for the Sprint review


Question 69: Which topics should be discussed in the Sprint review?
	A) The Scrum process and how it was used during the Sprint
	B) Coding and engineering practices
	C*) Sprint results
	D) All of the above


Question 70: A Scrum Master is working with a Development Team that has members in different physical locations. The development team meets in a variety of meeting rooms and has much to do logistically (for example: setup conference calls) before the daily scrum. What action should the Scrum Master take?
	A*) Allow the Development Team to self-manage and determine for itself what to do
	B) Setup the meeting and tell the Development Team how it will be done.
	C) Inform management and ask them to solve it
	D) Ask the Development Team members to alternate who is responsible for meeting setup


Question 71: A Development Team asks their Product Owner to reorder the Product Backlog. The team is waiting for an external supplier to deliver a specific software component. Without that component there won’t be enough work in the next Sprint to occupy the full team. The Product Owner asks the Scrum Master for help. What would be good advice to give the Product Owner?
	A) Tell the Product Owner to re-order the Product Backlog so the work involving the external component can be planned in a separate Sprint
	B) Tell the Product Owner that the Product Backlog should be ordered to maximize utilization of the Development Team
	C*) Remind the Product Owner that their primary concern is the flow of value reflected in the ordering of the Product Backlog


Question 72: User documentation is part of your definition of “done”; however, there aren’t enough technical writers for all teams. Your Development Team doesn’t have a technical writer. What should you do?
	A) Wait until you have a technical writer on your Development Team to take care of this.
	B) Let the user documentation remain undone and accumulate until after the last Development Team Sprint. It will then be done by any available technical writers.
	C*) Your Development Team is still responsible for creating user documentation. In this case, the Development Team members will write it.
	D) Form a separate team of technical writers that will work on an on-demand basis for the various Product Owners. Work order will be first in, first out.


Question 73: Why does the Product Owner want the Development Team to adhere to its definition of “done”
	A*) To have complete transparency into what has been done at the end of each Sprint
	B) To know what the team will deliver over the next three Sprints
	C) To be able to reprimand the team when they don’t meet their velocity goal for the Sprint
	D) To predict the teams productivity over time


Question 74: At the seventh Sprint review, the stakeholders are disappointed and angry. They have determined that the product or system being built will not meet their needs and will cost more than they are willing to spend. What factors likely led to this?
	A) The project management office (PMO) has not been engaged adequately
	B*) The Product Owner has not been keeping the stakeholders aware of the progress of the project
	C) The stakeholders were not allowed to enter the development area
	D*) The stakeholders haven’t been using the Sprint reviews to inspect and evaluate progress


Question 75: Which two of the following are true of the Scrum Master role?
	A) At the Sprint review, the Scrum Master identifies what has been done and what has not been done
	B*) The Scrum Master teaches the Development Team to keep the scrum meetings to their timebox
	C*) The Scrum Masters helps those outside the team to interact with the scrum team
	D) The Scrum Masters assigns tasks to Development Team members when they need work
	E) The Scrum Master is responsible for updating the Sprint burndown


Question 76: What is the time-box for the Sprint review?
	A) 2 hours for a monthly Sprint
	B*) 4 hours for a monthly Sprint
	C) 1 day
	D) 4 hours and longer as needed
	E) As long as need


Question 77: As the Development Team starts work during the Sprint it realizes it has selected too much work to finish the Sprint. What should it do?
	A) Inform the Product Owner at the Sprint review, but prior to the demonstration
	B) Find another scrum team to give the excess work to
	C) Reduce the definition of “done” and get all of the Product Backlog items done by the new definition
	D*) As soon as possible in the Sprint, work with the Product Owner to remove some work or Product Backlog items


Question 78: True or false: Every scrum team must have a Product Owner and a Scrum Master
	A) False, a Scrum Master is only required when asked for by the Development Team
	B*) True, outcomes are affected by their participation and availability
	C) True, Each must be 100% dedicated to their scrum team
	D) False, a Product Owner can be replaced by a business analyst in the Development Team


Question 79: True or false: A product increment must be released to production at the end of each Sprint.
	A) True
	B*) False
 # Anmerkung: Es muss lediglich potentiell auslieferbar sein


Question 80: If two Scrum teams are added to the development of a product that previously had only one Scrum team, what will be the immediate impact on the productivity of the original Scrum team?
	A) Its productivity is likely to stay the same
	B) Its productivity is likely to increase
	C*) Its productivity is likely to decrease


Question 81: Who should make sure everyone on the Development Team does his or her tasks for the Sprint?
	A) The project manager
	B) The Product Owner
	C) The Scrum Master
	D*) The Development Team
	E) All the above


Question 82: How much time is required after a Sprint to prepare for the next Sprint?
	A) A break between Sprints is time-boxed to one week for 30 day Sprints, and usually less for shorter Sprints
	B) Enough time for the requirements for the next Sprint to be determined and documented
	C) Enough time for the Development Team to finish the testing from the last Sprint
	D*) None. A new Sprint starts immediately following the end of the previous Sprint
	E) All of the above are allowed depending on the situation


Question 83: Which of the following are true about the Product Owner role?
	A) The Product Owner role can be played by a committee or a team of people
	B) Multiple people can share the Product Owner role on a Scrum team
	C*) The Product Owner is accountable for ordering the Product Backlog
	D*) The Product Owner is one person


Question 84: Which three of the following are time-boxed events in Scrum?
	A*) Sprint Planning
	B*) Daily Scrum
	C) Sprint 0
	D*) Sprint retrospective
	E) Sprint testing
	F) Release testing
	G) Release retrospective


Question 85: True or false: A Scrum Master is essentially the same thing a traditional PM (Project Manager)
	A) True
	B*) False


Question 86: The Product Owner is not collaborating with the Development Team during the Sprint. What are two valuable actions for a Scrum Master to take.
	A) Nominate a proxy Product Owner
	B) Inform the Product Owners functional manager
	C*) Coach the Product Owner in the values of Scrum and incremental delivery
	D) Stop the Sprint, send the Product Owner to a course and restart
	E*) Bring up the problem in the Sprint retrospective


Question 87: Which of the following might the Scrum team discuss during a Sprint retrospective?
	A) Methods of communication
	B) The way the Scrum team does Sprint Planning
	C) Skills needed to improve the Development Teams’ ability to deliver
	D) Its definition of done
	E*) All of the above


Question 88: When should a Sprint goal be created?
	A) At any time during the Sprint
	B) It should have been created in the previous Sprint during Product Backlog refinement
	C) It must be established before Sprint Planning in order to begin planning
	D*) During Sprint Planning
	E) A Sprint goal is not mandatory in Scrum


Question 89: What are three ways Scrum promotes self-organization?
	A*) By the Development Team deciding what work to do in a Sprint
	B) By not allowing documentation
	C) By preventing stakeholders from entering the development room
	D*) By removing titles for the Development Team members
	E*) By being a lightweight framework


Question 90: When is the Sprint Backlog created?
	A*) During the Sprint Planning meeting
	B) At the beginning of the project
	C) During the Sprint
	D) Prior to the Sprint Planning meeting


Question 91: True or false: Cross-functional teams are optimized to work on one technical layer of a system only (e.g. GUI, database, middle tier, interfaces)
	A) True
	B*) False


Question 92: In the Sprint Planning meeting, the Product Owner and the Development Team were unable to reach a clear understanding about the highest order Product Backlog items. Because of this, the Development Team couldn’t figure out how many Product Backlog items it could forecast for the upcoming Sprint. They were able to agree on a Sprint goal, however. Which of the following two actions should the Scrum Master support?
	A) Ask everyone to take as much time as needed to analyze the Product Backlog first, and then reconvene another Sprint Planning meeting
	B*) Discuss in the upcoming Sprint retrospective why this happened and what changes will make it less likely to recur
	C) Continue the Sprint Planning meeting past its time box until an adequate number of Product Backlog items are well enough understood for the Development Team to make a complete forecast. Then start the Sprint
	D) Cancel the Sprint. Send the entire team to an advanced Scrum training and then start a new Sprint
	E*) Forecast the most likely Product Backlog items to meet the goal and create a Sprint Backlog based on a likely initial design and plan. Once the time box for the Sprint Planning meeting is over, start the Sprint and continue to analyze, decompose, and create additional functionality during the Sprint


Question 93: Who starts the daily Scrum?
	A*) Whoever the Development Team decides should start
	B) The person coming in last. This encourages people to be on time and helps to stay within the time-box
	C) The person who has the token
	D) The Scrum Master. This ensures that the Development Team has the meeting and stays within the time-box
	E) The person who last broke the build


Question 94: A member of the Development Team takes the Scrum Master aside to express his concerns about data security issues. What should the Scrum Master do?
	A*) Ask the person to share the issue with the team as soon as possible
	B) Add security to the definition of “Done”
	C) Tell the Product Owner to stop further development of features until the issues are fixed
	D) Create a Product Backlog item for security
	E) Go check with the testers


Question 95: During a Sprint retrospective, the Development Team proposes moving the daily Scrum to only occur on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Which two are the most appropriate responses for the Scrum Master?
	A*) Coach the team on why the daily Scrum is important as an opportunity to update the plan
	B) Have the developers vote
	C) Acknowledge and support the self-organizing teams’ decision
	D*) Learn why the Development Team wants this and work with them to improve the outcome of the daily Scrum
	E) Consider the request and decide on which days the daily Scrum should occur


Question 96: Who is responsible for tracking the remaining work of the Sprint?
	A*) The Development Team
	B) The project manager
	C) The Product Owner
	D) The Scrum Master
	E) The Development Team in consultation with the Product Owner


Question 97: Which two things are appropriate for a Scrum Master to do if the Development Team doesn’t have the engineering tools and infrastructure to completely finish each selected Product Backlog item?
	A*) Have the Development Team establish a definition of “Done” that is actually possible to achieve given current circumstances
	B) Declare the Development Team not ready for Scrum
	C*) Coach the Development Team to improve its skills, tools and infrastructure over time and adjust the definition of “Done” accordingly
	D) Refocus the current Sprint on establishing the Development Team’s infrastructure instead of delivering an increment
	E) Encourage the Product Owner to accept partially done increments until the situation improves


Question 98: Which two activities will a Product Owner engage in during a Sprint?
	A) Run the daily Scrum
	B) Update the Sprint burndown chart
	C*) Answer questions from the Development Team about items in the current Sprint
	D) Prioritize the Development Team’s work on the Sprint Backlog
	E*) Work with stakeholders


Question 99: Which of these may a Development Team deliver at the end of a Sprint?
	A) Failing unit tests to identify acceptance tests for the next Sprint
	B*) An increment of working software that is done
	C) An increment of software with minor known bugs in it
	D) A single document, if that is what this Scrum Master asks for


Question 100: Sprint burndown charts are an efficient tracking tool because they show:
	A*) An estimate of the total work remaining for the Sprint
	B) How many Product Backlog items remain
	C) How much effort has gone into a Sprint
	D) How many hours have been worked by each Development Team member


Question 101: A Development Team selects a set of Product Backlog items for a Sprint Backlog with the intent to get these selected items “Done” by the end of the Sprint. Which three phrases best describe the purpose of a definition of “Done”?
	A*) It defines what it takes for an increment to be ready for release
	B*) It creates transparency over the work inspected in the Sprint review
	C) It tracks the percentage complete of a Product Backlog item
	D*) It guides the Development Team in creating a forecast in the Sprint Planning
	E) It provides a template for elements that need to be included in the technical documentation
	F) It controls whether the developers have performed their tasks


Question 102: As the Sprint Planning meeting progresses, the Development Team sees that the workload is greater than they can handle. Which two are valid actions.
	A) The Development Team works overtime during this Sprint
	B*) The Development Team ensures that the Product Owner is aware, starts the Sprint, and monitors progress
	C) Recruit additional Development Team members before the work can begin
	D*) Remove or change selected Product Backlog items
	E) Cancel the Sprint


Question 103: A Product Owner wants advice from the Scrum Master about estimating work in Scrum. Which of these is the guideline that a Scrum Master should give?
	A) Product Backlog items must be estimated in story points
	B) Estimates must be in relative units
	C*) Estimates are made by the Development Team
	D) Scrum forbids estimating
	E) Estimates are made by the Product Owner, but are best checked with the Development Team


Question 104: Which two ways of creating Development Teams are consistent with Scrum’s values?
	A*) Existing teams propose how they would like to go about organizing into the new structure
	B*) Bring all the developers together and let them self-organize into Development Teams
	C) Managers personally re-assign current subordinates to new teams
	D) The chief Product Owner determines the new team structure and assignments
	E) Managers collaborate to assign individuals into specific teams


Question 105: A Scrum Master is introducing Scrum to a new Development Team. The Development Team has decided that a Sprint retrospective is unnecessary. What action should the Scrum Master take?
	A) Consult with the Product Owner to see how he/she feels about the situation
	B) Comply with the decision of the self-organizing team
	C) Call a meeting between the Development Team and senior management
	D*) Begin facilitating productive and useful Sprint retrospectives


Question 106: Which two techniques could the Scrum Master use when the Scrum team gets caught in an internal disagreement about which development techniques to apply?
	A*) Involve the complete Development Team
	B*) Use coaching techniques such as: Open questions and active listening
	C) Ask an internal technical specialist to make the decision
	D) Send every team member to the company’s HR dept. to express their concerns


Question 107: The Product Owner determines how many Product Backlog items the Development Team selects for a Sprint.
	A*) False
	B) True, but only after confirmation by the resource manager that the team has enough capacity
	C) False, the Scrum Master does that
	D) True, accordingly to what was committed to the stakeholders
	E) False, capacity and commitment are the project manager’s responsibility
	F) True


Question 108: How is management external to the Scrum team involved in the daily Scrum?
	A) The Scrum Master speaks on their behalf
	B) Management gives an update at the start of each daily Scrum
	C*) The Development Team self manages and is the only management required at the daily Scrum
	D) The Product Owner represents their opinions


Question 109: When is it most appropriate for a Development Team to change the definition of “Done”
	A) During Sprint Planning
	B) Prior to starting a new project
	C) Prior to starting a new Sprint
	D*) During the Sprint retrospective


Question 110: True or false: The Product Owner makes sure the team selects enough from the Product Backlog for a Sprint to satisfy the stakeholders.
	A) True
	B*) False


Question 111: A new developer is having continuing conflicts with existing Development Team members and creating a hostile environment. If necessary, who is responsible for removing the team member?
	A) The Product Owner is responsible, because he/she controls the ROI
	B) The Scrum Master is responsible, because he/she removes impediments
	C) The hiring manager is responsible, because he/she hired the developer
	D*) The Development Team is responsible and may need help from the Scrum Master


Question 112: When can a Development Team cancel a Sprint?
	A) When the Product Owner is absent too often
	B*) It can’t. Only Product Owners can cancel Sprints
	C) When functional expectations are not well understood
	D) When the selected Product Backlog items for the Sprint become unachievable
	E) When a technical dependency cannot be resolved


Question 113: What is the key concern when multiple Development Teams are working from the same Product Backlog?
	A) Making sure there is enough work for everyone on every team
	B) Maximizing velocity
	C) Clear definition of requirements
	D*) Minimizing dependencies between teams
	E) Meeting original scope projections


Question 114: Which three purposes does the definition of “Done” serve?
	A) Describe the purpose, objective, and time-box of each Scrum event
	B*) Guide the Development Team on how many Product Backlog items to select for the Sprint
	C*) Increase transparency
	D) Describe the work that must be done before the Sprint is allowed to end
	E*) Create a shared understanding of when work is complete


Question 115: Which three of the following are true about Scrum?
	A*) Each component of Scrum serves a specific purpose and is essential to Scrum’s success and your usage of Scrum to develop complex products
	B*) Scrum is a framework for developing and sustaining complex products
	C) Scrum is a methodology where you can pick and choose which parts of Scrum you think will work for your environment
	D*) Scrum is based on empirical process control theory.
	E) Scrum is like traditional processes but with self-organization to replace Project Managers.


Question 116: What is the time-box for the Sprint Planning meeting?
	A) Whenever it is done
	B) Monthly
	C*) 8 hours for a monthly Sprint
	D) 4 hours for a monthly Sprint


Question 117: What does it mean for a Development Team to be cross-functional?
	A) Developers on the Development Team work closely with business analysts, architects, developers and testers who are not on the team.
	B) The Development Team includes not only developers but also business analysts, architects, developers and testers.
	C*) The Development Team includes cross-skilled individuals who are able to contribute to do what is necessary to deliver an increment of software
	D) The Development Team is a virtual team drawing from seperate teams of business analysts, architects, developers and testers.


Question 118: The Scrum Master observes the Product Owner is struggling with ordering the Product Backlog. What is an appropriate action for the Scrum Master to take?
	A) Encourage the Product Owner to work with the Development Team to see which items technically are fastest to implement
	B) Suggest the Product Owner extend the Sprint, so he can have more time to order the Product Backlog
	C*) Offer the Product Owner help in understanding that the goal of ordering the Product Backlog is to maximize value
	D) Present the Product Owner with an ordered Product Backlog to use
	E) Suggest that the Development Team does the ordering to be sure that it is a feasible ordering of work


Question 119: Which three behaviors demonstrate that a team is self-organizing?
	A*) The Development Team creating their own Sprint Backlog, reflecting all work that is part of the definition of “Done”
	B) Stakeholder walking in at the daily Scrum to check progress and work with the Scrum Master to optimize the functional scope of the Sprint
	C) The Development Team inviting external people to the Sprint Planning to ask them how to turn a Product Backlog item into an increment via a complete and detailed Sprint Backlog
	D) The Development Team members are working within the boundaries of their functional description and nicely handing off work from analyst to developer to tester to integration
	E) The Product Owner doesn’t need to be at the Sprint retrospectives
	F*) The Development Team has all the skills needed to create a releasable increment
	G) The Scrum Master is no longer needed
	H*) Development Team members collaboratively selecting their own work during the Sprint


Question 120: Which are NOT appropriate topics for discussion in a Sprint Retrospective?
	A*) Arranging the Sprint Backlog for the next Sprint
	B) Definition of “Done”
	C) Team relations
	D) How the team does its work
	E*) The value of work currently represented in the Product Backlog


Question 121: What two factors are best considered when establishing the Sprint length?
	A*) The level of uncertainty over the technology to be used
	B) The frequency at which team formation can be changed
	C*) The risk of being disconnected from the stakeholders
	D) The organization has mandated similar length Sprints


Question 122: Who is responsible for engaging the Stakeholders?
	A) The team manager
	B*) The Product Owner
	C) The Development Team
	D) The business analyst
	E) The project manager


Question 123: You are the Scrum Master on a newly formed Scrum Team. Which two of the following activities would probably help the team in starting up?
	A*) Ensure the team understands they need a definition of “Done”
	B) Ensure the team members have compatible personalities
	C) Have the development managers for each Development Team member introduce their direct reports and go over their responsibilities on the Scrum Team
	D) Introduce a bonus system for the top performers in the team
	E*) Ask the Product Owner to discuss the product, its vision, history, goals, and context, as well as answer questions


Question 124: You have just been hired by a company new to Scrum. Your management has assigned you to be the Scrum Master of six new Scrum Teams. These teams will build one product. Select two conditions you should strive for in this scenario.
	A) There should be six Product Owners reporting to chief Product Owner
	B) Each Scrum Team should have a separate Product Backlog
	C*) The product has one Product Backlog
	D) There should be six Product Owners, one for each Scrum Team
	E*) There should be only one Product Owner


Question 125: For which is the Scrum Master responsible?
	A*) The Scrum Framework being adopted and used properly
	B) Managing performance of the Scrum Team
	C) Keeping track of resource allocation
	D) The meetings and the objectives that a Scrum Team sets for itself


Question 126: True or false: A properly functioning Scrum Team will have at least one Release Sprint and may well have several.
	A) True
	B*) False


Question 127: What is the best suited structure for Development Teams in order to produce integrated increments?
	A*) Each Development Team develops functionality from beginning to end throughout all technical layers
	B) Each Development Team works only on one technical layer of the system (e.g. GUI, database, middle tier, interfaces)


Question 128: True or false: The purpose of a sprint is to produce a done increment of working product
	A*) True
	B) False


Question 129: Which output from sprint planning provides the development team with a target and overreaching direction for the sprint?
	A) The sprint backlog
	B*) The sprint goal
	C) Sprint review minutes
	D) The release plan


Question 130: True or false: To get started in terms of what to build, scrum requires no more than a product owner with enough ideas for a first sprint, a development team to implement those ideas and a scrum master to help guide the process
	A*) True
	B) False


Question 131: The product owner must release each increment to production.
	A) Without exception
	B) To make sure the development team is done every sprint
	C*) When it makes sense
	D) Whenever the product is free of defects


Question 132: True or false: Multiple scrum teams working on the same product or system all select work from the same product backlog
	A*) True
	B) False


Question 133: If burndown charts are used to visualize progress what do they track?
	A) Accumulated business value delivered to the customer
	B*) Work remaining across time
	C) Individual worker productivity
	D) Accumulated cost


Question 134: Who must attend the daily scrum?
	A) The development team and the product owner
	B*) The development team
	C) The scrum master and product owner
	D) The scrum team
	E) The development team and scrum master


Question 135: Which statement best describes the sprint backlog as outcome of the sprint planning
	A) It is a complete list of all work to be done in a sprint
	B) It is ordered by the product owner
	C*) It is the Development Team’s plan for the sprint
	D) Each task is estimated in hours
	E) Every item has a designated owner


Question 136: True or false: The sprint goal is a result of sprint planning, as is the sprint backlog.
	A*) True
	B) False


Question 137: Choose two responsibilities of a self-organizing development team.
	A) Increase velocity
	B*) Do the work planned in the sprint backlog
	C) Reorder the product backlog
	D*) Pull product backlog items for the sprint
	E) Report daily progress to stakeholders


Question 138: What are two good ways for the scrum team to ensure security concerns are satisfied?
	A) Delegate the work to the concerned department
	B) Postpone the work until a specialist can perform a security audit and create a list of security related product backlog items
	C) Add a sprint to specifically resolve the security concerns
	D*) Add security concerns to the definition of “done”
	E*) Have the scrum team create product backlog items for each concern


Question 139: When is implementation of product backlog item considered complete?
	A) When QA reports the item passes all acceptance criteria
	B*) When the item has no work remaining in order to be potentially released
	C) At the end of the sprint
	D) When all work in the sprint backlog related to the item is finished


Question 140: During the sprint retrospective a scrum team has identified several high priority process improvements. Which of the following statements is most accurate?
	A) The scrum team should decline to add a process improvement to the sprint backlog when things are running smoothly
	B*) The scrum team should choose at least one high priority process improvement to place in the sprint backlog
	C) The scrum team should choose at least one high priority process improvement to place in the product backlog
	D) The scrum master selects the most important process improvement and places it in the sprint backlog


Question 141: Which of the following are true about the length of a sprint?
	A) Sprint length is determined during sprint planning and should be long enough to make sure the DT can deliver what is to be accomplished in the upcoming sprint
	B) Sprint length is determined during sprint planning and should hold the time it will take to code the planned features in the upcoming sprint but does not include time for any testing
	C*) All sprints must be 1 month or less
	D*) It is best to have sprints of consistent length throughout a development effort
	E) The length of the sprint should be proportional to the work that is done in between sprints


Question 142: What enhances the transparency of an increment?
	A*) Doing all work needed to meet the definition of done
	B) Keeping track of and estimating all undone work to be completed in a separate sprint
	C) Reporting sprint progress to the stakeholders daily
	D) Updating sprint tasks properly in the electronic tracking tool


Question 143: Which scrum values are exhibited by not building product backlog items that have low business value?
	A) Earned value
	B) Economic value added
	C*) Courage
	D*) Respect
	E*) Focus


Question 144: You are the SM of four scrum teams working from the same product backlog. Several of the developers come to you complaining that work identified for the upcoming two sprints will require full-time commitment from a technical specialist who is external to the teams. What are two key concerns for the SM to take account in this situation?
	A) The need to have enough work to keep all development team members busy
	B*) The ability of the development teams to produce integrated increments
	C) The desire to maintain a stable velocity
	D*) The benefit of development teams figuring out a solution for themselves


Question 145: How do you know that a DT is cross-functional?
	A) Every member of the DT is able to perform every task
	B) There are no conflicts within the DT
	C*) DT has all the skills to create a potentially releasable increment by the end of every sprint
	D) A few of the DT members pair program an do test driven development


Question 146: What is the accountability of the PO during sprint 0?
	A*) There is no such thing as sprint 0
	B) Make the complete project plan to commit date, budget, an scope to the stakeholders
	C) Determine the composition of the DT so they have the capacity to deliver the completed forecast
	D) Gathering, eliciting and analyzing the requirements that will be inserted into the product backlog.
	E) Make sure enough Product backlog items are refined to fill the first 3 sprints.


Question 147: What is the tactic a SM should use to divide a group of 100 people into multiple DT?
	A) Ask the PO to assign the people to teams
	B*) Ask the developers to divide themselves into teams
	C) Create teams based on their skills across multiple layer


Question 148: What is included in the sprint backlog?
	A) User stories
	B) Tasks
	C) Use cases
	D) Tests
	E*) Any of the above (or others) which are a decomposition of the selected product backlog items


Question 149: When does the second sprint start?
	A) Once the architectural changes for the second sprint have been approved by the senior architect
	B*) Immediately after the first sprint
	C) After the product backlog for the second sprint has been selected
	D) After the customer completes acceptance testing of the first sprint


Question 150: Which answer best describes the topics covered in sprint planning?
	A) Who is the the team and what team member roles will be
	B) What to do und who will do it
	C*) What can be done and how to do it
	D) What went wrong in the last sprint and what to do differently this sprint
	E) How conditions have changed and how the product backlog should evolve


Question 151: A SM is keeping a list of open impediments, but it is growing and they have been able to resolve only a small portion of the impediments. Which two techniques would be most helpful in this situation?
	A*) Discuss the impediments with the DT
	B) Add each open impediment to the product backlog
	C*) Prioritize the list and work on them in order
	D) Arrange a triage meeting with all the project managers


Question 152: Who must do all the work to make sure product backlog items conform to the DoD?
	A) The scrum team
	B) The product owner
	C) QA specialists
	D) The scrum master
	E*) The development team


Question 153: What are two good ways for the DT to make non-functional requirements visible?
	A*) Add them to the DoD so the work is taken care of every sprint
	B) Put them on a separate list on the scrum board, available for all to see
	C) Run the integration and regression tests before the end of the sprint an capture the open work for the sprint backlog on the next sprint
	D*) Add them to the product backlog and keep the PO posted on the expected effort


Question 154: Why should the PO be present at the daily scrum?
	A*) He/she doesnt need to be there
	B) To represent the stakeholders point of view
	C) To hear about the impediments in functionality
	D) To participate as a scrum team member


Question 155: When many scrum teams are working on the same product, should all of their increments be integrated every sprint?
	A) No, each scrum team stands alone
	B) Yes but only for scrum teams whose work has dependencies
	C) No that is far too hard and must be done in a hardening sprint
	D*) Yes, otherwise the PO (and stakeholders) may not be able to accurately inspect what is done


Question 156: What activities would a PO typically undertake in the phase between the end of the current sprint and the start of the next sprint?
	A*) There are no such activities, the next sprint starts immediately after the current sprint
	B) Update the project plan with stakeholders
	C) Work with the QA departments on the increment of the current sprint
	D) Refine the product backlog


Question 157: The product backlog is ordered by:
	A) Items are randomly arranged
	B) Size, where small items are at the top and large items are at the bottom
	C) Risk, where safer items are at the top, and riskier items are at the bottom
	D*) The product owner with the most valuable items placed at the top


Question 158: Which best describes the product backlog?
	A) It is baselined to follow change management processes
	B) It provides just enough information to enable a scrum team to start the design phase of a product
	C*) It is allowed to grow and change as more is learned about the product and its customers
	D) It contains all foreseeable tasks and requirements from which the scrum team can develop and maintain a complete project plan


Question 159: The daily scrum is an event that happens every day. What would be three key concerns if the frequency were to be lowered to every two or three days?
	A*) Impediments are raised and resolved more slowly
	B*) The sprint plan may become inaccurate
	C*) Opportunities to inspect and adapt the sprint backlog are lost
	D) The scrum master loses the ability to update the gantt chart properly
	E) Too much work is spent updating the scrum board before the meeting
	F) The product owner cannot accurately report progress to the stakeholders


Question 160: Which Scrum Value is affected by a lack of trust in the Scrum Team?
	A) Focus
	B) Respect
	C) Openness
	D) Courage
	E) Commitment
	F*) All of the above


Question 161: Who creates a Product Backlog Item’s estimate?
	A*) The Development Team after clarifying requirements with the Product Owner
	B) The Scrum Master
	C) The PO with input from the Development Team
	D) The Development Team, alone
	E) The most senior people in the organization, including architects and subject matter experts


Question 162: How should Product Backlog items be chosen when multiple Scrum Teams work from the same Product Backlog?
	A*) The Development Team pull in work in agreement with the PO
	B) Each Scrum Team takes an equal number of items
	C) The PO decides
	D) The PO should provide each team with its own Product Backlog
	E) The Scrum Team with the highest velocity pulls Product Backlog items first


Question 163: What are two responsibilities of testers in a DT?
	A) Verifying the work of programmers
	B*) Scrum has no “tester” role
	C) Finding bugs
	D*) Everyone in the DT is responsible for quality
	E) Tracking quality metrics


Question 164: Which of the following are true about the length of the Sprint?
	A) Sprint length is determined during Sprint Planning and should hold the time it will take to code the planned features in the upcoming Sprint, but does not include time for any testing.
	B) The length of the Sprint should be proportional to the work that is done in between Sprints.
	C) Sprint length is determined during Sprint Planning and should be long enough to make sure the Development Team can deliver what is to be accomplished in the upcoming Sprint.
	D*) It is best to have Sprints of consistent length throughout a development effort.
	E*) All Sprints must be 1 month or less


Question 165: At the end of a Sprint, a Product Backlog item worked on during the sprint does not meet the definition of “Done”. What two things should happen with the undone Product Backlog item? Choose the best two answers:
	A*) Do not include the item in the Increment of this Sprint.
	B*) Put it on the Product Backlog for the PO to decide what to do with it.
	C) Review the item, add the “Done” part of the estimate to the velocity and create a story for the remaining work. [keine Teilung von Items vorgesehen!]


Question 166: Which are properties of the Daily Scrum?
	A*) It is fifteen minutes or less in duration.
	B) It is facilitated by the team lead.
	C) It is free form and designed to promote conversation.
	D) It consists of the Scrum Master asking the Team members the 3 questions.
	E*) Its location and time remain constant.
	F) It is held first thing in the morning.


Question 167: Which two of the following are appropriate topics for discussion during a Sprint Retrospective?
	A*) Identifying high priority process improvements for the next Sprint.
	B*) How the team collaborates.
	C) Documenting acceptance criteria for items in the next Sprint.
	D) The order of items in the Product Backlog.


Question 168: A Development Team is required to deliver a done Increment by the end of a Sprint. Select two statements that explain what “Done” means.
	A) Whatever the Product Owner defines as quality.
	B*) No work left from the definition of “Done”.
	C) Ready for integration.
	D) All work the Development Team is willing to do.
	E*) All work to create software [product increment] that is ready to be released to end users.


Question 169: What are three things to consider when deciding to move away from such component teams toward feature teams?
	A) You cannot do Scrum without feature teams.
	B*) Productivity may suffer when making this kind of move.
	C*) Getting support from the business side first helps.
	D*) Feature teams have less communication overhead.
	E) With feature teams, it is easier to calculate the productivity per team.


Question 170: The IT manager asks the Development team for a status report describing the progress throughout the Sprint. The Development team asks the Scrum Master for advice. The Scrum Master should/will:
	A) Create and deliver the report to the manager herself.
	B) Tell the development team to figure it out themselves
	C) Tell the development team to fit the report into the Sprint Backlog.
	D*) Talk to the IT manager and explain that the progress in Scrum comes from inspecting an increment at the Sprint Review.
	E) Ask the Product Owner to send the manager the report.


Question 171: If burndown charts are used to visualize progress, what does a trend line through a release burndown chart indicate?
	A) When the project will be over if the Product Owner removes work that is equal in effort to any new work that is added.
	B) The evolution of the cost spent on the project.
	C) When all work will be completed so the Scrum Team can be released for the other work.
	D*) When the work remaining will likely be completed if nothing changes on the Product Backlog or the Dev. Team


Question 172: Why does a Development Team need a Sprint Goal?
	A) A Sprint Goal only gives purpose to Sprint 0
	B) Sprint Goals are not valuable. Everything is known from the Product Backlog
	C*) The Development Team is more focused with a common, yet specific, goal
	D) A Sprint Goal ensures that all of the Product Backlog items selected for the Sprint are implemented


Question 173: Who can abnormally terminate the Sprint?
	A) The stakeholders
	B) The Scrum Master
	C) The Development Team
	D*) The Product Owner


Question 174: What happens if the Development Team cannot complete its work by the end of the Sprint?
	A) The Sprint is extended and future Sprints use this new duration
	B) The Sprint is extended temporarily. Lessons are taken to ensure it doesn´t happen again.
	C*) The Sprint length holds and the Development Team continuously learns what is actually possible to do within a Sprint of this length


Question 175: How should a Development Team deal with non-functional requirements?
	A*) Ensure every lncrement meets them.
	B) Assign them to the lead developers on the team.
	C) Make sure the release department understands these requirements, but it is not the Development Team's responsibility.
	D) Handle them during the Integration Sprint preceding the Release Sprint.


Question 176: What are three benefits of self-organization?
	A*) Increased self-accountability
	B) Increased accuracy of estimates
	C*) Increased commitment
	D*) Increased creativity
	E) Increased rule compliance


Question 177: Who owns the Sprint Backlog?
	A) The Scrum Master.
	B) The Product Owner.
	C*) The Development Team.
	D) The Scrum Team


Question 178: For the purpose of transparency, when does Scrum say a new increment of working software must be available?
	A*) At the end of every Sprint.
	B) Every three Sprints.
	C) Before the release Sprint.
	D) After the acceptance testing phase.
	E) When the Product Owner asks to create one.


Question 179: Which phrase best describes a Product Owner?
	A) Team manager.
	B) Requirements engineer.
	C*) Value optimizer.
	D) Go-between for the Development Team and customers.


Question 180: Who determines how work is performed during the Sprint?
	A) Architects.
	B) Subject matter experts.
	C*) The Development Team.
	D) Development Team managers.
	E) The Scrum Master


Question 181: A Sprint Retrospective should be held:
	A) At the beginning of each Sprint.
	B) At the end of the last Sprint in a project or a release.
	C) Only when the Scrum Team determines it needs one.
	D*) At the end of each Sprint.


Question 182: As the Development Team matures, what are possible outcomes?
	A) The Sprint Retrospective is likely to last longer than 4 hours.
	B*) The Development Team is able to work with a more demanding Definition of “Done”
	C) The Scrum Master is no longer needed.
	D) The Daily Scrum is no longer needed.


Question 183: True or false: Scrum is a methodology that tells in detail how to build software incrementally?
	A) True
	B*) False


Question 184: Which outcome is expected as Scrum Teams mature?
	A) A Scrum Master is no longer needed since they are a mature team now
	B*) They will improve their definition of “Done” to include more stringent criteria
	C) There is no need for a time-boxed Sprint, since time-boxes are only for new Scrum Teams
	D) The Sprint Retrospectives will grow to be longer than 4 hours
	E) Sprint Reviewers will no longer be needed


Question 185: True or False: Multiple Scrum Teams working in the same project must have the same Sprint Start?
	A) True
	B*) False


Question 186: The Sprint Review is mainly an inspect and adapt opportunity for which group?
	A) The Product Owner and management.
	B) The Development Team and management.
	C*) The Scrum Team and stakeholders.
	D) The Development Team and stakeholders.
	E) The Product Owner and stakeholders
	F) The Product Owner and Development Team


Question 187: During the Sprint, the Scrum Master’s role is to do which two of the following:
	A) Assign tasks with the Scrum team
	B*) Facilitate inspection and adaptation opportunities as requested or needed
	C) Escalate team conflicts to functional line managers
	D) Monitor the progress of the Development Team
	E*) Remove impediments
	F) Ensure the Product Owner attends all Scrum events


Question 188: Which three of the following are feedback loops in Scrum
	A) Release Planning
	B) Refinement Meeting
	C*) Sprint retrospective
	D*) Sprint Review
	E*) Daily Scrum


Question 189: Which three questions might be answered by DT members at the Daily Scrum?
	A*) What will I do today to help the DT meet the Sprint Goal?
	B) What will I be working on tomorrow?
	C) How many hours did I spend on the project yesterday?
	D) How is the Sprint proceeding?
	E) Why were you late?
	F*) Do I see any impediment that prevents me or the DT from meeting the Sprint Goal?
	G*) What did I do yesterday that helped the DT meet the Sprint Goal?


Question 190: What is the purpose of a Sprint Review?
	A*) To inspect the product increment with the stakeholders and collect feedback on next steps.
	B) To review the Scrum Team’s activities and processes during the Sprint.
	C) To build team spirit.
	D) To take time to judge the validity of the project.


Question 191: What is the role of management in Scrum?
	A*) To facilitate the Scrum Teams with insights and resources that help them improve.
	B) To identify and remove people that aren’t working hard enough.
	C) To continually monitor staffing levels of the Development Team.
	D) To monitor the Development Team’s productivity.


Question 192: How much of the Sprint Backlog must be defined during the Sprint Planning event?
	A) Just enough tasks for the Scrum Master to be confident in the Development Teams understanding of the Sprint
	B) Just enough to understand design and architectural implications
	C) The entire Sprint Backlog must be identified and estimated by the end of the Sprint Planning meeting
	D*) Enough so the Development Team can create its best forecast of what it can do, and to start the first several days of the Sprint


Question 193: Which two things should the Development Team do during the first Sprint?
	A) Analyze, describe, and document the requirements for the subsequent Sprints
	B) Analyze, design, and describe the complete architecture and infrastructure
	C*) Create an increment of potentially releasable software.
	D*) Develop at least one piece of functionally
	E) Make up a plan for the rest of the project


Question 194: When do Development Team members take ownership of a Sprint Backlog item?
	A) During the Daily Scrum.
	B) Whenever a team member can accommodate more work.
	C*) Never. All Sprint Backlog items are “owned” by the entire Development Team, even though each one may be done by an individual Development Team member.
	D) At the Sprint Planning meeting.


Question 195: One of the Scrum events is the Daily Scrum. What are two intended outcomes of the Daily Scrum?
	A) A status report for the upper management indicating what each individual has done, will be doing, and what is impeding him/her
	B*) New impediments for the Scrum Master to take care of.
	C*) A shared understanding of the most important work to be undertaken next to achieve the best possible Progress toward the Sprint goal.
	D) An update of completed tasks and of the remaining work so the Scrum Master can plan the next day.
	E) An updated Scrum board to make Sprint progress transparent for the stakeholders.


